[Music]
what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose today I'm
gonna be doing a study with me video I
thought I'd walk you through a little
bit of what I do when I'm studying while
on holiday so I'm actually in Greece
right now to visit family and friends
for the Christmas holidays on the new
year but of course I have a progress
test the next day after I get back to
the UK so I need to do a bunch of
studying while I'm here
generally what I'll do is try and wake
up as early as I can get like four hours
of studying in something like that and
then have lunch with my family go with
my friends enjoy the night
and then rinse and repeat the process
all over again so today I just spend the
morning scanning some of my handwritten
notes from the first semester so I could
put them on my brand new iPad and have
all my notes located in one place I'm
gonna read through them again and
highlight and make take notes of the
most important things coming up -
progress test - anyway without further
ado I'm just gonna leave the camera
bunny I'm gonna do some studying do my
thing and talk to you guys every now and
again if I think of something useful for
you guys forgot my coffee
alright let's get started so just let me
say briefly so that you guys know what
it is that I'm doing while I'm studying
basically these notes cover every single
detail from the lecture so when I'm
making these notes I don't like to miss
out any sentence any detail any number
and in fact anything like that I want to
make sure that I have all the possible
information needed for me in my notes so
that I never have to look at the lecture
slides again after that now when I'm
going through and studying for the exam
I know that the exam is very heavily
clinically focused in second year this
is very different to first year so if
your first year don't study like this
but in second year KCl at least the exam
is much more heavily clinically focused
and so when I'm taking notes or
rereading through this again I'm
focusing very heavily on just what would
come up in a clinical scenario at the
hospital with the patient presentation
or anything like that I'm not so much
memorizing for example now I'm looking
at human development and the
hypothalamus and pituitary looking at
five or eight hormones so instead of
focusing on how thought thyroid hormones
are made with iodine and crossing the
membrane teaching different transporters
and things like not focusing on how
patients present if they're missing t3
or t4 or if they have a tumor that's
causing too much TSH being produced or
too much trh be produced things like
that so I'm focusing a lot more on the
clinical aspect of the lecture that I'm
studying and hopefully that way I'm
sending smart something effectively and
I'm focusing on what would come up you
need
[Music]
I was reading about Cushing's disease or
Cushing's syndrome which is a disease
the results from an excess amount of
glucocorticoids or portable google
corticoids or cortisol levels in the
body I was reading about in the lecture
but I wanted to know more about how a
patient would present if they came to
the hospital with fishing's disease and
that isn't really something that we
covered too much in life it's not
something we got too deep into so I got
this book just the essentials of
clinical medicine by Kumar and Clark and
so this book is extremely clinical focus
so this talks about the symptoms and
signs of people when they present with
Cushing's disease different
investigations you can do clinical
features and management so if treatment
treatment isn't something that we focus
on too heavily second year pretty much
not alcohol if I'm honest but something
to keep in mind sometimes you do get
questions about the management how you
would treat disease coming up on the
exam so it's useful for that too
[Music]
so while I'm going through my lecture
notes when revising all the different
material that I have per lecture I also
have another document which I keep on
the side and that document is sort of
let's call it like very important facts
or things that are hard to memorize or
things that I just can't really put into
my brain from an understanding point of
view so I just need to memorize and so I
have a full document for those types of
facts and that is very very important
because there are things that if I have
30 40 pages of lecture notes to go
through one simple small fact it's gonna
be something very hard to locate later
on so having a separate document with
all those small tiny sketching my new
details makes it really easy to review
afterwards and so I find that really
useful what I'm going to my lecture
notes
[Music]
when I'm studying whether it's a home or
at the library you guys will see me do a
lot of talking to myself if I'm at the
library or even here I don't really talk
out loud obviously for obvious reasons
but generally I just like I move my
mouth as if I was talking or as if I was
explaining it and the reason that I do
that is generally when I'm writing
lecture notes I'm mostly just copying
information or summarizing information
condensing information and that sort of
isn't a very active process I can
basically be watching a video while
doing that I never do because I get to
distract it but the point is that it's
something that doesn't take a lot of
mental energy and focus however when it
comes to actually learning memorizing
understanding the details of all of this
for the exam
I definitely feel like I need to sit
down to think about it well and if I can
explain it and talk about it out loud
then I know that I'm actually
understanding what's going on and also
just that use of like the motor skill of
speaking something out loud in addition
to writing and looking at it I think
consolidates my memory better and so
that's why you'll see me talking as if I
was talking to someone but I'm basically
just whispering under my breath and
pretending as if I was explaining this
to somebody else
I forgot to mention earlier that I also
eat a lot of snacks while I study and so
instead of getting up every now and
again to the fridge and procrastinate or
whatever I always make sure that I have
a lot of time on me before I start
studying
so today I've got this huge tub of like
hominy straight up took me like 45
minutes to make yesterday and but now I
can sit here for four hours and peace
don't have to worry about feeling hungry
you're getting this tonight so yeah I
always make sure that I have snacks on
me before I start studying or sort of
coffee as well obviously essential
[Music]
you
okay so now that I've covered a couple
of lectures covering endocrinology cold
diseases and some reproduction as well
I'm not gonna go to that buffman that I
have where I have those small details
those harder to memorize things and I'm
gonna go over it just to make sure that
I remember everything that I just read
consolidate my memory a little bit more
and sort of get it ingrained in my mind
so I don't forget it and after that I
think it'll be time for a coffee break
because I'm out of coffee and craving
some more
you
all right guess time for coffee number
three of the day I know I miss coffee
let me take you with me
[Music]
you
so yeah I guess that's pretty much what
studying on holiday looks like for me I
try and do about four or five hours in
the morning time ish with my friends and
yeah it's basically about finding a
balance between doing as much studying
is you need to do to prepare for your
exams no one not and also being able to
enjoy yourself on holiday so that you
can relax and you know just be able to
be ready for the school year when it
starts again you go back to tons and
tons of lectures and even more studying
some you might remember this background
from one of my earlier videos if you do
big shout out to you anyways guys that's
about it for me I'm basically in a study
in a four-hour block try and be as
productive as I can do this many
lectures as possible and yeah I'm just
gonna have some lunch go out with my
friends and enjoy my holiday so I hope
you guys have been studying okay for
your interviews your a-levels I know
there's a lot of studying going on
during these Christmas periods if
there's anything that you guys want to
know any topic do you want me to make a
video on definitely do let me know in a
comment down below and I'll see you guys
in the next video peace
you
[Music]